Amani channel web video chefs calm and
we have a question from one of our
students about how to plug in two
microphones to a single camera Jack and
I have a great solution which I'll share
in this recipe
so if you've seen any of my video
production recipes I talked about
capturing good audio and the way you do
that is with a microphone which I'm
holding right now this is the audio
technica 83 5s it's the omnidirectional
condenser lavalier mic which clips on to
a shirt or lapel or something like that
and it's always good to use a microphone
whenever you're doing an interview right
now I'm holding the mic because I didn't
clip it on and we have a question from
one of our students
her name is Tamika she asks I have a
quick question I've been watching the
videos regarding microphones and such
I'm going to start conducting sit-down
interviews how would I go up miking
myself and the individual I am
interviewing I'm using a camcorder
already purchased a lapel microphone for
myself but I was wondering if there is
something I need to do to hook two
microphones to my camera that is a great
question to me because if you have a
consumer-grade camera you probably only
have a single mic input you know mic
inputs are only on certain models of
camcorders as it is consumer camcorders
so if you have one that's first of all
an excellent step because you want to
capture great audio and you need a
microphone jack to do that but what do
you do alright so I found this great
solution which I'm going to show you now
alright so this is the Canon Vixia and
what I like about the Vixia line of
cameras made by can is that most of them
have a microphone input which is what
you need this is another camera it's a
pocket camera made by Kodak as currently
discontinued but you can find it online
in a2 as a microphone input and these
are a couple of microphones that I use
so this is the audio-technica ATR 35 s
it's a clip-on microphone as you see
right there I mean it takes a battery
which goes in that little area and it
has a 3.5 millimeter male plug and then
it has an on and off switch and so it's
a great mic and then I even like even
better the Radio Shack 33 30:13 which is
again a lapel mic it also takes a
battery the quality is a little bit
better I think than the audio technica
and it again has an on and off switch
alright so this is the solution that I
found this is the Y adapter I found it
at RadioShack and it's a little device
that takes two inputs they plug into
those female terminals and this is how
you connect it alright so take your Y
adapter and I will plug in the
microphones first to this alright so
plug each one in these are mono
microphones and then once you have them
plugged in plug it into the mic in
alright be kind of gentle with it you
don't want to stress out that jack or
that input cuz that would be a problem
and it's really that simple alright so
now let's check it out
five four three two one
okay so now I am testing out the audio
technica 8035 s and hopefully it sounds
loud and clear and so if I was the
talent or the host host ur talents the
same thing but I would run this
microphone first of all up from the
bottom of the shirt to the collar and
then clip it on because we want to hide
the wire and also you want to have his
poly framed is a two shot if both the
talent and the host and the interview we
are going to be on camera and then you
would do the same thing with the
interviewee so you would mic them up
with the other microphone this is the
Radio Shack 33 0 13 microphone so
hopefully it again sounds a loud and
clear on speaking directly into it and
you would run the microphone again up
from the bottom of the shirt to the top
and clip it on the interviewee and then
you'll get great sound using one Jack
but you need to use that splitter it's
called a Y adapter make sure it's a mono
Y adapter and you'll be good to go
Tomica so hopefully that answers your
question this is a really simple
affordable solution to plugging in two
microphones into a single 3.5 millimeter
a microphone input on your video camera
remember don't underestimate the power
of great audio if you have any questions
or if you want to look for these
microphones online I will leave a link
below both of these lavalier mics you
can purchase for under 30 bucks or so so
great affordable solutions for all of
you producers out there or aspiring
producers and if you have any questions
about anything that I discussed please
feel free to email me at ask at web
video chefs comm if this video was
helpful subscribe to this channel go to
our website or subscribe to our
newsletter you'll get great valuable
tips and tricks delivered right near
email on a weekly or monthly basis we
try to update regularly and that's it
for now Monni channel will talk to you
soon